[Music]
well greetings food lovers there's
nothing better than some pigs in a
blanket on game day chips on the side
and a big apple pie for dessert eh
now whether you're American or not could
decide how you just imagined all those
fun foods I mentioned and wait there's
more check out some other popular dishes
in the US that look different around the
world one pancakes let's say you're an
American tourist in Russia you wake up
and you're craving a big stack of fluffy
pancakes smothered in butter and syrup
woohoo that hits the spot you ask for a
menu in English scan it for your morning
treasure and boom there it is pancakes
I'll have that please the waiter brings
your breakfast out you look down and
you're stunned to see what looks like
wimpy paper-thin French crepes on your
plate hey man what gives well
pancakes date back to ancient Greece and
Rome before they were officially dubbed
pancakes in America they used to be
called Indian cakes crepes on the other
hand have nothing to do with pancakes in
terms of origin since they date back to
the 13th century France kind of gives
you that crepes huh number two toast
now speaking of breakfast when it comes
to toast my to the French have an
imagination American toast is just a
toasted piece of bread of course you got
to throw some butter and jelly on that
bad boy but if you've ever had french
toast well you know it's a sweet delight
of white bread soaked in a mixture of
beaten eggs milk sugar vanilla and
cinnamon I guess that's why they don't
need those big thick pancakes in France
and I imagine they don't call it French
toast over there and if you keep goofing
this up then I imagine you're toast
three pigs in a blanket all right it's
football Sunday and you've rolled some
mini hot dogs up and dough and threw
them in the oven if the game you're
watching includes big dudes and helmets
and pads
throwing an almond-shaped ball around
and you refer to your game day snack as
pigs in a blanket
you must be America if you're in the UK
that dish would involve wrapping hot
dogs and bacon and that football you're
watching would be what we call soccer in
the US now here's where it gets trippy
the equivalent of American pigs in a
blanket is called a sausage roll in the
UK Yankees called the British variety
bacon-wrapped hot dogs boy that just
sucks all the fun right out of it
doesn't it
number four bacon
since we've touched on the topic of
bacon let's get that straight - bacon in
the u.s. comes from the pigs belly and
is served in thin crispy strips coated
with fat in the UK bacon is from the
pigs back and it's less fatty thicker
chewy and served in round slices it's
kind of like what Americans refer to as
Canadian bacon or maybe a combination of
the US and Canadian types so if you're
from the UK and you're having a hard
time finding some proper bacon in the US
maybe ask for the Canadian variety a
number-5 pudding now my fellow Americans
will imagine a creamy custard dessert
when they think of pudding if you were
to travel to the UK you get something
way different the British definition of
pudding is anything that's been boiled
in something else for example in the UK
and Ireland they have the infamous black
pudding that's served for breakfast it's
also called wait for it
blood sausage really well that just ends
it for me right there they also have
sweet puddings but that would be the
cake like dish we call flan in the u.s.
flan in the UK however is what Americans
know as fruit pie how confusing well as
Shakespeare might have said a pie by any
other name would taste as sweet
except for that blood sausage thing
number six eggs okay
eggs are eggs no matter where you go in
the world I'll take mine scrambled
please but the thing is stores in Europe
don't keep them refrigerated like they
do in the US America does it for safety
reasons the Department of Agriculture
determined that the most effective way
to fight salmonella is by refrigerating
eggs but that doesn't mean European
countries don't take their own safety
precautions to fight bacterial food
poisoning in some parts of Europe they
leave the original coating on the eggs
there's an original coating and that
coating protects them from contamination
in other parts they vaccinate hens to
keep the eggs disease-free number 7
bread sticks I'm sure you know we have
the Italians to thank for this tasty
Mediterranean treat however when it
comes to the original bread sticks also
known as Rossini the food migration game
didn't go as planned
you see when we asked for bread sticks
in an American restaurant we get soft
pieces of doughy bread and garlic that
we can dip in sauce but if you were
having lunch in an Italian restaurant
and asked for bread sticks you'd
actually get the original version of
grissini crispy baked bread sticks that
can accompany your salad or be crunched
on as a snack on its own
number eight ketchup now ketchup is
another one of those culinary items that
got lost in translation in America you
know that familiar red paste made from
tomato vinegar sugar and all the
accompanying spices however if you go to
Australia and ask for ketchup on your
burger
the waiter might give you a funny look
and say you mean tomato sauce this goes
back 80 years ago when ketchup hadn't
made its way to Australia yet and they
used to serve tomato sauce as a
condiment instead
now even though ketchup has made its way
to Australia
it hasn't changed in terms of language
and while we're here don't even get me
started on that whole ketchup versus
catsup deal 9 chips one of the most
traditional dishes in the UK
fish and chips but if you're an American
and he didn't know better yet imagine
someone eating fish and a handful of
Lay's or Doritos but what they call
chips are what Americans know as french
fries on the flip side in the UK
Australia New Zealand and South Africa
what we call chips the round things sold
in half empty bags they call crisps as
for the French part of the American
naming that goes way back to the 1800s
or even earlier when potatoes not
necessarily the sticks we know today
we're a fried quote in the French manner
end quote
french fried back then was pretty much
what we call deep-fried today number 10
cookies the American understanding of
cookie comes from the Dutch word could
chew which means small cake and when you
think about it that's pretty much what
cookies are only maybe they're a little
crunchy er but in most english-speaking
countries except for Canada cookies are
called biscuits in fact they only use
the term cookies to describe the
chocolate chip ones in particular as for
those fluffy little rolls Americans know
as biscuits those are called scones
elsewhere now here's my question what do
they call the sweet biscuit hybrid we
know as scones in America number eleven
jelly on a related point as an American
I smother my biscuits not cookies or
scones in butter and jelly if you're in
the UK you're probably imagining me
hopelessly trying to spread some jello
on my bread because for you jelly is my
jello and my jelly is your jam oh my
brain of course we have jam in the US
but it usually has chunks of fruit in it
unlike smooth creamy jelly so travelers
beware this kind of mix-up could end up
putting you in a jam which in this
context means a tough spot
my head is spinning number 12 hi now
back to desserts hmm I could go on and
on about pie pumpkin Apple blueberry
cherry anyway
pies in some parts of the world aren't
the sweet fruity round pastries we know
and love in the u.s. in Greece for
example pies are savory and the dough
isn't as fluffy they can be made with
cheese spinach mushrooms and even some
meat those kinds are also popular in the
UK Australia New Zealand Ghana Nigeria
and Zimbabwe to name a few
number 13 Milky Way bars alright I know
your stomach is growling up a storm by
now so here's our final example of a
familiar food that might throw you a
surprise if you eat it abroad if you
love American Milky Way's wait until you
try the European version it's also made
of chocolate and nougat of course but it
doesn't have that layer of caramel in it
I imagine Milky Way bars in Europe is
pretty similar to the three musketeer
bars we have in the US and if you're
curious it got the name Milky Way
because it can float in a glass of milk
really yeah go try it oh wait no all
right bright siders I'd say it's time
for lunch what do you think before you
go fill my belly I'd like to ask you
about the food in your region is it
cooked or refer to differently in other
parts of the world let me know down in
the comments and if you learned
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with your friends
but hey don't go anywhere just yet we
have over two thousand really cool
videos for you to check out all you have
to do is pick the left or right video
click on it and enjoy stay on the bright
side of life